workflows/git-commit.md, before:

---
description: Streamlined git commit workflow without pre-flight checks.
---

# Git Commit Workflow

This command guides the agent through a safe commit process without running pre-flight checks (like lint or build). It ensures branch confirmation and explicit user approval for the commit message.

## Phase 1: Configuration & Approval
Before proceeding to commit, the agent MUST:

### 1. Identify and Confirm Branch
- List available local branches using `git branch`.
- Present the list to the user.
- **WAIT** for the user to specify or confirm the target branch.

### 2. Propose Commit Message
- Prepare a **very detailed and comprehensive** commit message that:
    - Analyzes the recent chat history to understand the context and motivation for changes.
    - Reviews all staged changes using `git diff --cached` or `git status`.
    - Summarizes the changes with specific file names, functions, and modifications.
    - Follows conventional commit format (e.g., `feat:`, `fix:`, `refactor:`).
- Present the message to the user.
- **WAIT** for the user to approve or request edits to the message.

## Phase 2: Execution
Once (and ONLY once) the branch and commit message are approved:
1. Stage all changes: `git add .`
2. Commit with the approved message: `git commit -m "[message]"`
3. Push to the confirmed branch: `git push origin [branch-name]`

## Phase 3: Final Verification
1. Confirm with the user that the changes are pushed and live.

Commit message:

feat: add smart branch detection to git-commit workflow
Enhanced the git-commit workflow with intelligent branch detection that
automatically selects the current branch when it's the only actively worked
on branch, reducing unnecessary user prompts while maintaining safety.

Changes:
- Added smart branch detection logic that checks current branch, uncommitted
  changes, and recent activity (commits in last 7 days)
- Implemented auto-selection when current branch has changes and is the only
  branch with recent activity
- Added fallback to present branch options when multiple branches are active
  or ambiguity exists
- Included clear user communication when auto-selecting branches

Modified files:
- workflows/git-commit.md: Expanded "Identify and Confirm Branch" section
  with detection logic, auto-selection criteria, and fallback behavior

This enhancement streamlines the commit process for single-branch workflows
while preserving explicit confirmation requirements for ambiguous scenarios.

workflows/git-commit.md, after:

---
description: Streamlined git commit workflow without pre-flight checks.
---

# Git Commit Workflow

This command guides the agent through a safe commit process without running pre-flight checks (like lint or build). It ensures branch confirmation and explicit user approval for the commit message.

## Phase 1: Configuration & Approval
Before proceeding to commit, the agent MUST:

### 1. Identify and Confirm Branch
The agent should intelligently detect the target branch:

**Smart Branch Detection:**
- Check the current branch using `git branch --show-current` or `git rev-parse --abbrev-ref HEAD`.
- Check for uncommitted changes using `git status --porcelain`.
- If there are uncommitted changes on the current branch, check for other branches with recent activity:
  - List branches with commits in the last 7 days: `git for-each-ref --sort=-committerdate refs/heads/ --format='%(refname:short) %(committerdate:relative)' --count=10`
  - Check if multiple branches have been actively worked on recently.

**Branch Selection Logic:**
- **Auto-select** the current branch if:
  - There are uncommitted changes on the current branch, AND
  - No other branches have commits within the last 7 days, OR
  - Only one branch shows recent activity (commits in last 7 days).
- **Present options** to the user if:
  - Multiple branches show recent activity, OR
  - The current branch has no uncommitted changes, OR
  - The user explicitly requests branch selection.

**When Auto-selecting:**
- Inform the user: "Detected single active branch: [branch-name]. Proceeding with this branch."
- Proceed directly to commit message proposal.

**When Presenting Options:**
- List available local branches using `git branch`.
- Show recent activity for each branch (last commit date).
- Present the list to the user.
- **WAIT** for the user to specify or confirm the target branch.

### 2. Propose Commit Message
- Prepare a **very detailed and comprehensive** commit message that:
    - Analyzes the recent chat history to understand the context and motivation for changes.
    - Reviews all staged changes using `git diff --cached` or `git status`.
    - Summarizes the changes with specific file names, functions, and modifications.
    - Follows conventional commit format (e.g., `feat:`, `fix:`, `refactor:`).
- Present the message to the user.
- **WAIT** for the user to approve or request edits to the message.

## Phase 2: Execution
Once (and ONLY once) the branch and commit message are approved:
1. Stage all changes: `git add .`
2. Commit with the approved message: `git commit -m "[message]"`
3. Push to the confirmed branch: `git push origin [branch-name]`

## Phase 3: Final Verification
1. Confirm with the user that the changes are pushed and live.
